# PracticalTask

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 18.2.11.

## Prerequisites
- Node.js v18.20.X or higher
- Angular CLI v18.2.11 or higher

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via a platform of your choice. To use this command, you need to first add a package that implements end-to-end testing capabilities.

## Deployment

Run the following commands to deploy the application:

1. Build the app for production:
   `ng build --configuration production`
2. Deploy using Firebase Hosting:
   `firebase deploy`

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.dev/tools/cli) page.


# API Documentation

## Overview

This document describes the API design and implementation for a TO-DO web application built with Angular and Firebase. The application enables users to manage their tasks with features such as saving, updating, deleting, filtering, sorting, and searching tasks.

## Base Setup

Platform: Firebase (Firestore Database, Firebase Authentication).

State Management: Angular Services with RxJS/NgRx.

Authentication: Firebase Authentication (Email/Password).

## Data Structure
Each User Data in Firestore is stored in `usersData` collection and will have the following structure:

`{
  "docID": String,
  "name": String,
  "uid": String,
}`

Each TO-DO task in Firestore is stored in `todos` collection and will have the following structure:

`{
  "completed": Boolean,
  "completionDate": Date | NULL,
  "creationDate": Date,
  "description": String,
  "docID": String,
  "dueDate": Date,
  "ownerDocID": String,
  "priority": "low" | "medium" | "high",
}`

## Authentication

### Sign Up
Function: [createUserWithEmailAndPassword](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/password-auth)
Description: Registers a new user.

Request Parameters:
  1. Auth: Firebase Authentication instance
  2. email: String – The user's email address.
  3. password: String – The user's password.

Response:

{
  "user": {
    "uid": String
  },
  "_tokenResponse": {
    "expiresIn": String,
    "idToken": String
  }
}

### Login
Function: [signInWithEmailAndPassword](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/password-auth#sign_in_a_user_with_an_email_address_and_password)
Description: Authenticates an existing user with an email and password.

Request Parameters:
1. Auth: Firebase Authentication instance
2. email: String – The user's email address.
3. password: String – The user's password.

Response:

{
  "user": {
    "uid": String
  },
  "_tokenResponse": {
    "expiresIn": String,
    "idToken": String
  }
}

### Logout
Function: [signOut](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/password-auth#next_steps)
Description: Signs the user out of the application.

Request Parameters:

This function does not require any parameters.

Response:

{ }

### Password Reset
Function: [sendPasswordResetEmail](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/manage-users#send_a_password_reset_email)
Description: Sends a password reset email to the user.

Request Parameters:
1. Auth: Firebase Authentication instance
2. email: String – The user's email address.

Response:

{ }

### Get Documents from Collection
Function: [getDocs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/get-data#get_multiple_documents_from_a_collection)
Description: Retrieves a data stored in Firestore.

Request Parameters:
1. QuerySnapshot: Firebase Query Snapshot with Collection reference

Response: data, that is stored in particular collection

### Add Document to Collection
Function: [addDoc](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/manage-data/add-data#add_a_document)
Description: Adds a new document to a Firestore collection (e.g., for storing additional user data).

Returns unique document ID generated by Firestore for the newly created document in the collection.

Request Parameters:
1. CollectionReference: Firebase Collection reference
2. `objectName`: Object

Response:

{
  "id": "String"
}

### Update Document in Collection
Function: [updateDoc](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/manage-data/add-data#update-data)
Description: Updates a document in the Firestore collection.

Request Parameters:
1.  DocumentReference: Firebase Document reference
2. `objectName`: Object

Response:

{ }

### Delete Document in Collection
Function: [deleteDoc](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/manage-data/delete-data)
Description: Deletes a document in the Firestore collection.

Request Parameters:
1.  DocumentReference: Firebase Document reference

Response:

{ }

For more details, refer to the [Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs).
